# Quoted
#### Description:
My app, Quoted, was written in Swift using the SwiftUI framework. I had no previous experience with Swift but over the month of development I had with this app, I became quite fond of Swift and iOS development in general. The basic idea for the app came to me when I thought about my own reading habits. When I read a book I often come across quotes I like that I'd like to remember and save somewhere but I'm always to lazy to handwrite them or write the full quote in my notes app so I often just write down the page number of the quote. With that in mind, I thought why not just create an app that gives me a space to easily add all my favorite quotes of a particular book. Unsurprisingly, I found that I wasn't the first to have this idea, but I did find myself rather disappointed with the UI of other apps so I tried to take the idea and make it my own visually and functionally. From that idea, I started with the home screen and expanded from there.
####
The home screen uses a card style display where each book added by the user has its own card with a user selected color, title, author, page count, favorite button, dates read, and a number to represent the amount of quotes added to that book. To keep organized, these cards can easily be sorted, by things such as title, author, page count, date added, etc., or filtered by selecting a particular collection. Speaking of collections, these are core data entities that store books entities, which essentially gives the user the ability to consolidate and organize their books into different categories. The task of adding/managing these collections or adding a book can easily be completed using the relevant buttons on the bottom toolbar of the homescreen. Each button pulls up another view where I tried to keep the task of adding both books and collections simple and visually appealing.
####
On the home screen, if you tap a book card, you are then taken to the detail view for that book. This view displays the complete title, author list, all quotes for that book, and all with a consistent theme that corresponds to the user-selected color for that book. Each quote also has its own card where the quote itself is front and center and is accompanied by a favorite button as well as a page number, if the user chose to add one. Similar to the home screen, this view also contains a bottom toolbar with two buttons, one to add a quote and one to edit the book. The add quote button brings you to a view where you can manually write the quote or simply scan an image (or multiple images) for text. When you choose to scan for a quote, you can select an image from your library or take a new image on the fly. Once you choose the image, the ability to select text comes up right away and you can make a selection then add that selection to your quote. From that point, you can choose to add more photos, and more selections, or finish the quote. Once you are finished, you are a taken to the write view where you can edit the selection you made and add a page number and favorite the quote. I did my best to keep this process simple and user friendly and believe I did a decent job, although that may not translate from this semi-confusing text explanation.
####
After adding a quote, you are returned to the book detail view. Now that you have a quote to display, you will find that you can tap on that quote card, similar to the book card, and be brought to the quote detail view. In this view you have the option to easily edit, delete, or share the quote. I also provided a section to add your thoughts on the quote. Similar to the book detail view, everything is themed based on the user-selected color for the book so that the visual flow between book and quote detail views is enjoyable.
####
That about sums up the main components of the app. As an overall addition, it is important to note that I really tried to pay attention to user flow in this app, which I hope shows when navigating between views and when editing data one will find that everything animates to change rather than immediately switching. Anyways, as one could assume, I went through numerous iterations with this app and, at times, completely reworked particular views and, honestly, discovered how annoying UI development can be when developing for varying screen sizes. However, I overally really enjoyed diving deep into a full scale project, am excited to release this app very soon on the app store, and already have ideas on how to expand the app in the future. To give a quick explanation of the files in this project, you will see that everything is separated into relevant folders. "Image Scan Elements" contains all the code for adding and scanning images, "View Elements" contains all the reusable SwiftUI view components that surface in differnet views of my app, "Views" contains all the actual views, or screens, that are displayed in my app, and "QuotedData" contains the CoreData code used to store user information and establish relationships between my main data entities (books, quotes, and collections). Overall, I had a lot of fun making this project, am proud of the finished product, and was thrilled to see how quickly you can pick up another language, like Swift, after having a good foundation in other languages.
